College Salaries Dashboard Project
Overview
This project aims to create a comprehensive dashboard to visualize which majors, schools, and types of schools produce alumni with the highest earnings. The process involves:

Loading CSV Files into a SQL Database
Crafting and Executing SQL Queries
Extracting Data with Python
Visualizing Data with Tableau
Steps
1. Loading CSV Files into SQL Database
We started with three CSV files:

salaries-by-college-type.csv
degrees-that-pay-back.csv
salaries-by-region.csv
These files were loaded into a SQLite database.

2. SQL Queries
SQL queries were written to extract relevant data:

Top 5 and bottom 5 majors for starting and mid-career salaries
Organized by school type, school name, and major
These queries are included in the export_collegemajor_queries_to_csv.py script.

3. Data Extraction with Python
A Python script was created to:

Load CSV files into the database
Execute SQL queries
Export results to CSV files
4. Data Visualization with Tableau
The extracted data was visualized in Tableau to create an interactive dashboard. The dashboard includes:

Top 5 majors by starting and mid-career salaries
Top 5 schools by starting and mid-career salaries
Top 5 school types by starting and mid-career salaries
Bottom 5 majors for starting salaries (visualized as "Majors to Avoid")
View the Tableau Dashboard

Included Files
Python Script: export_collegemajor_queries_to_csv.py (contains SQL queries and export code)
CSV Files:
salaries-by-college-type.csv
degrees-that-pay-back.csv
salaries-by-region.csv
SQLite Database: database.db (optional)
README: This file
Running the Project
Prerequisites: Ensure Python and SQLite are installed.
Setup: Place the CSV files in the same directory as the export_collegemajor_queries_to_csv.py script.
Execution:
sh
Copy code
python3 export_collegemajor_queries_to_csv.py
Visualization: Use Tableau to visualize the data using the provided CSV files.
Conclusion
This project showcases how to use SQL and Python for data manipulation and extraction, followed by data visualization using Tableau. The dashboard highlights the most and least lucrative majors, schools, and school types.
